# Spring Boot Getting Started

## Setting up the project with Maven or Gradle

for Maven:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 https://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>

    <groupId>com.example</groupId>
    <artifactId>myproject</artifactId>
    <version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>3.2.1</version>
    </parent>

    <!-- Additional lines to be added here... -->

</project>
```

for Gradle:
```groovy
plugins {
    id 'java'
    id 'org.springframework.boot' version '3.2.1'
}

apply plugin: 'io.spring.dependency-management'

group = 'com.example'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
sourceCompatibility = '17'

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
}
```
For Maven Spring Boot applications use the spring-boot-starter-parent in the parent section of the POM. The spring-boot-starter-parent is a special starter that provides useful Maven defaults. It also provides a dependency-management section so that you can omit version tags for “blessed” dependencies.
For Gradle, use the org.springframework.boot Gradle plugin. This plugin provides useful defaults and Gradle tasks. The io.spring.dependency-management Gradle plugin provides dependency management so that you can omit version tags for “blessed” dependencies.
### Adding Classpath Dependencies
Since we are developing a web application, we add a spring-boot-starter-web dependency

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
}
```

## Writing the Code

```java
package com.example;

@RestController
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication {

    @RequestMapping("/")
    String home() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApplication.class, args);
    }

}
```
### The @SpringBootApplication Annotation
@SpringBootApplication. This annotation is known as a meta-annotation, it combines @SpringBootConfiguration, @EnableAutoConfiguration and @ComponentScan.

Of those, the annotation we’re most interested in here is @EnableAutoConfiguration. @EnableAutoConfiguration tells Spring Boot to “guess” how you want to configure Spring, based on the jar dependencies that you have added. Since spring-boot-starter-web added Tomcat and Spring MVC, the auto-configuration assumes that you are developing a web application and sets up Spring accordingly.

### The “main” Method
The final part of our application is the main method. This is a standard method that follows the Java convention for an application entry point. Our main method delegates to Spring Boot’s SpringApplication class by calling run. SpringApplication bootstraps our application, starting Spring, which, in turn, starts the auto-configured Tomcat web server. We need to pass MyApplication.class as an argument to the run method to tell SpringApplication which is the primary Spring component. The args array is also passed through to expose any command-line arguments.

## Creating an Executable Jar
for Maven, to create an executable jar, we need to add the spring-boot-maven-plugin to our pom.xml. To do so, insert the following lines just below the dependencies section:
```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

Note:
The spring-boot-starter-parent POM includes <executions> configuration to bind the repackage goal. If you do not use the parent POM, you need to declare this configuration yourself. See the [plugin documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/3.2.1/maven-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#getting-started) for details.

for gradle, To create an executable jar, we need to run gradle bootJar from the command line, as follows:
`gradle bootJar`
## Rerference

[https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/getting-started.html](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/getting-started.html)